Name: 
Tommaso Ramella

Project: 
Implicit Association Test: determinants of implicit discrimination

Description
The Implicit Association Test (IAT) (Harvard University) measures attitudes and beliefs 
that people may be unwilling or unable to report', or, in other words, implicit attitudes 
that people don't know to have. For example, people can report not to discriminate 
against black or gay people, but 'automatic associations' could show that they actually do, 
let's say, at an unconscious level. The IAT is meant to measure those automatic associations 
on different fields, like gender, race, age, and others. It transform implicit discrimination
into a time variable, showing the different time reaction in associating, let's say, 
good - gay inputs vs bad - gay inputs (and, at the same time, good - straight vs bad - straight). 
If people take more time to associate bad - gay inputs (and straights - bad ones) than 
good - gay ones (and straigh - bad) the test will return a certain level of implicit 
gender discrimination. 
In this project I'll focus on gender discrimination, and how automatic association is 
linked to sociodemographic information, explicit discrimination and others. 
Every information is available at: 
https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/education.html

Data analysis and modeling 
The target variable of the project is the overall IAT value. It's an already standardized
variable showing the time associated with implicit gender discrimination. When people take 
the test, they also need to fulfill some other information like age, education... and 
their explicit discrimination (i.e. if they explicitly discriminate non-straight people). 
Some of these variable will be used to predict the level of implicit discrimination. 
A first process of data cleaning is required, since respondents are not obliged to 
answer all the additional information. I will focus only on those records with full
information available. 
After the cleaning process, i will build a linear regression model to observe which are
the best predictors of implicit discrimination.  


